Alluysl's Other Origins/README.md, before:

# Alluysl's Other Origins

[![License: CC BY 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

<a href="https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/origins"><img src="https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/817078792463187988/831319512464490496/origins_badge.png" alt="Requires Origins" width="180" height="60" /></a>
<a href="https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/pehkui"><img src="https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/747200097015562250/840039825678663741/pehkui_badge.png" alt="Requires Pehkui" width="180" height="60" /></a>

An Origins datapack made to work both in 1.16.5 (tested with Origins 0.7.1, but versions [0.7.3](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/origins/files/3319081) (official) or [0.8.1](https://github.com/Alluysl/origins-fabric/releases/tag/v0.8.1) (unofficial) are recommended) and 1.17/1.17.1 (latest version - [1.0.3](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/origins/files/3392228) at the time of writing - recommended) that adds three origins:
- [Chicken](#chicken): an bolder version of the avian that focuses heavily on making use of its slow falling
- [Ostrich](#ostrich): a variant of the avian that sacrifices slow falling for speed
- [Hummingbird](#hummingbird): a sugar-themed origin with creative-like flight, even smaller than the inchling

## Installing

**You don't need to install the datapack** - nor anything else besides Origins/Pehkui and their dependencies - **to join a server that uses it.**

Steps:
- Head to the [versions](versions) and download the one you wish to use. The latest one for the indicated Minecraft version is recommended.
- For singleplayer/LAN, put the datapack in the corresponding folder of your world (`%appdata%/.minecraft/saves/<world name>/datapacks/`). [Here](https://youtu.be/ekFgQsLO5x4)'s how to add datapacks on Aternos.
- Quit and rejoin the world (or restart the server) for the changes to take effects (`/reload` works on paper but I have found it to be extremely unreliable).

Do **not** use `/datapack disable` on this pack, your world will probably freeze.

## Origins and powers

### Chicken

Impact | Difficulty | Latency dependence
-------|------------|-------------------
🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫

#### 🟢 Small

You're one block tall - and a borb.

#### 🟢 Wing Flap

Everytime you're in the air, you can flap your wings to gain height twice.

#### 🟢 Featherweight

You have fall slowly.

#### 🟢 Oviparous

You lay an egg when you wake up.

#### 🟡 Need For Air

You're 30% faster - in reality about 20% considering your size - in open air, but unlucky and 20% slower when not exposed to the sky.

#### 🔴 Fragile

You only have seven hearts.

#### 🔴 Vegetarian

Yummy vegetables-

#### 🔴 Weak to Felines

Players with the feline origin or nine lives power deal 50% extra damage to you.

#### 🔴 [Unlisted] Chocolate Toxicity

Eating [chocolate](#chocolate) either hurts or poisons you.

### Ostrich

Impact | Difficulty | Latency dependence
-------|------------|-------------------
🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫

#### 🟢 Acrobatics

You never take fall damage.

#### 🟢 Fast Runner

Sprinting makes you even faster than it would for a human.

#### 🟢 Large Eggs

You lay a big egg when you wake up.

#### 🟡 Savanna Inhabitant

You spawn in a savanna.

#### 🔴 Flightless

You can't wear elytra.

#### 🔴 Vegetarian

Mmm lettuce.

#### 🔴 Weak To Felines

You know the drill.

#### 🔴 [Unlisted] Chocolate Toxicity

Eating [chocolate](#chocolate) either hurts or poisons you.

#### Ostrich fact

Using your secondary ability you can say a fact about ostriches in chat on a five-minute cooldown (taken from Shoebill's bird fact command).

### Hummingbird

Impact | Difficulty | Latency dependence
-------|------------|-------------------
🔴🔴🔴 | 🟢⚫⚫ | 🟡🟡⚫

#### 🟢 Buzzing Flight

You can toggle flapping your wings to fly like a hummingbird. Sprint to dash like real hummingbirds do!

If you're not satiated enough, you won't be able to rise, dash, or even maintain height.

You also never take fall damage.

#### 🟢 Tiny

You're even smaller than an inchling.

#### 🟡 Fast Heart

You attack faster while satiated, and you're weakened when hungry.

#### 🟡 Sugar Preference

Non-[sugary foods](#sugary-foods) aren't as good for you, but those that contain that juicy glucose give you absorption. You can also eat plain sugar.

#### 🟡 Extremely Light

Taking damage while flying knocks you way back.

#### 🔴 Short Life

You only have 4 hearts.

#### 🔴 Unfit For Walking

You walk quite slowly. If you're on ground, you better hop.

#### 🔴 Redundant Wings

You already have wings, why wear elytra?

#### 🔴 Need For Mobility

You can't wear heavy armor.

#### 🔴 [Unlisted] Chocolate Toxicity

Eating [chocolate](#chocolate) either hurts or poisons you.

## Food types

Croptopia doesn't need to be installed for the datapack to function, however if it is, some of its items will be supported alongside vanilla ones.

### Chocolate

Vanilla:
- Cocoa Beans
- Cookies

Croptopia:
- Chocolate
- Chocolate Milkshake
- Brownies
- Protein Bar
- Trail Mix

### Sugary foods

Vanilla:
- Honey Bottle
- Sweet Berries
- Beetroot

Croptopia:
- All jams (grape, strawberry, peach, apricot, blackberry, blueberry, cherry, elderberry, raspberry)

Commit message:

AOO: Fix hummingbird damage knockback 'feature', trident throw bug, chest opening bug, item pickup bug

Alluysl's Other Origins/README.md, after:

# Alluysl's Other Origins

[![License: CC BY 4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY%204.0-lightgrey.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

<a href="https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/origins"><img src="https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/817078792463187988/831319512464490496/origins_badge.png" alt="Requires Origins" width="180" height="60" /></a>
<a href="https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/pehkui"><img src="https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/747200097015562250/840039825678663741/pehkui_badge.png" alt="Requires Pehkui" width="180" height="60" /></a>

An Origins datapack made to work both in 1.16.5 (tested with Origins 0.7.1, but versions [0.7.3](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/origins/files/3319081) (official) or [0.8.1](https://github.com/Alluysl/origins-fabric/releases/tag/v0.8.1) (unofficial) are recommended) and 1.17/1.17.1 (latest version - [1.0.3](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/origins/files/3392228) at the time of writing - recommended) that adds three origins:
- [Chicken](#chicken): an bolder version of the avian that focuses heavily on making use of its slow falling
- [Ostrich](#ostrich): a variant of the avian that sacrifices slow falling for speed
- [Hummingbird](#hummingbird): a sugar-themed origin with creative-like flight, even smaller than the inchling

## Installing

**You don't need to install the datapack** - nor anything else besides Origins/Pehkui and their dependencies - **to join a server that uses it.**

Steps:
- Head to the [versions](versions) and download the one you wish to use. The latest one for the indicated Minecraft version is recommended.
- For singleplayer/LAN, put the datapack in the corresponding folder of your world (`%appdata%/.minecraft/saves/<world name>/datapacks/`). [Here](https://youtu.be/ekFgQsLO5x4)'s how to add datapacks on Aternos.
- Quit and rejoin the world (or restart the server) for the changes to take effects (`/reload` works on paper but I have found it to be extremely unreliable).

Do **not** use `/datapack disable` on this pack, your world will probably freeze.

## Origins and powers

### Chicken

Impact | Difficulty | Latency dependence
-------|------------|-------------------
🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫

#### 🟢 Small

You're one block tall - and a borb.

#### 🟢 Wing Flap

Everytime you're in the air, you can flap your wings to gain height twice.

#### 🟢 Featherweight

You have fall slowly.

#### 🟢 Oviparous

You lay an egg when you wake up.

#### 🟡 Need For Air

You're 30% faster - in reality about 20% considering your size - in open air, but unlucky and 20% slower when not exposed to the sky.

#### 🔴 Fragile

You only have seven hearts.

#### 🔴 Vegetarian

Yummy vegetables-

#### 🔴 Weak to Felines

Players with the feline origin or nine lives power deal 50% extra damage to you.

#### 🔴 [Unlisted] Chocolate Toxicity

Eating [chocolate](#chocolate) either hurts or poisons you.

### Ostrich

Impact | Difficulty | Latency dependence
-------|------------|-------------------
🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫ | 🟢⚫⚫

#### 🟢 Acrobatics

You never take fall damage.

#### 🟢 Fast Runner

Sprinting makes you even faster than it would for a human.

#### 🟢 Large Eggs

You lay a big egg when you wake up.

#### 🟡 Savanna Inhabitant

You spawn in a savanna.

#### 🔴 Flightless

You can't wear elytra.

#### 🔴 Vegetarian

Mmm lettuce.

#### 🔴 Weak To Felines

You know the drill.

#### 🔴 [Unlisted] Chocolate Toxicity

Eating [chocolate](#chocolate) either hurts or poisons you.

#### Ostrich fact

Using your secondary ability you can say a fact about ostriches in chat on a five-minute cooldown (taken from Shoebill's bird fact command).

### Hummingbird

Impact | Difficulty | Latency dependence
-------|------------|-------------------
🔴🔴🔴 | 🟢⚫⚫ | 🟡🟡⚫

#### 🟢 Buzzing Flight

You can toggle flapping your wings to fly like a hummingbird. Sprint to dash like real hummingbirds do!

If you're not satiated enough, you won't be able to rise, dash, or even maintain height.

You also never take fall damage.

#### 🟢 Tiny

You're even smaller than an inchling, this means you can fit in more spaces, you might have a harder time picking up items, though.

#### 🟡 Fast Heart

You attack faster while satiated, and you're weakened when hungry.

#### 🟡 Sugar Preference

Non-[sugary foods](#sugary-foods) aren't as good for you, but those that contain that juicy glucose give you absorption. You can also eat plain sugar.

#### 🔴 Short Life

You only have 4 hearts.

#### 🔴 Unfit For Walking

You walk quite slowly. If you're on ground, you better hop.

#### 🔴 Redundant Wings

You already have wings, why wear elytra?

#### 🔴 Need For Mobility

You can't wear heavy armor.

#### 🔴 [Unlisted] Chocolate Toxicity

Eating [chocolate](#chocolate) either hurts or poisons you.

## Food types

Croptopia doesn't need to be installed for the datapack to function, however if it is, some of its items will be supported alongside vanilla ones.

### Chocolate

Vanilla:
- Cocoa Beans
- Cookies

Croptopia:
- Chocolate
- Chocolate Milkshake
- Brownies
- Protein Bar
- Trail Mix

### Sugary foods

Vanilla:
- Honey Bottle
- Sweet Berries
- Beetroot

Croptopia:
- All jams (grape, strawberry, peach, apricot, blackberry, blueberry, cherry, elderberry, raspberry)
